To solve the odd occurring number problem
We can use the bitwise XOR operator
We know that doing XOR on the same bits will
result in zero and doing XOR on different bits
will result in one. So doing XOR on the
number and itself
even number of times will result in zero
And if we do XOR on the number and
itself odd number of times, the result will be that
number itself.
Thus if we do bitwise XOR on all
the elements of the array one after the other, we will
get the odd occurring number
Let us see how this works
as an example. we have an array with size five
and elements 1 3 3 1 5. First let us assign the first element
to variable result
then we shall iterate the array from second element and perform
XOR on result and the element and store the outcome
in result. So firstly do XOR in result and
second element that is one XOR three and we
will get 0010 which is decimal two. So store that
in result. Now do XOR on updated result and
next element. That is two and three
So we will get 0010 XOR 0011 and the
result will be 0001. That is decimal one. So store
it in result. Now do XOR on result and
the next element that is one and one
And the result is 0000. So update result and now
do XOR on the new result zero and the
next element five and result is 0101. That is five
itself and the array is completely processed now and thus
the elements occurring even number of times has cancelled out
each other and we have the odd occurring number in variable
result.